We added the first styles to our website and this already improves the look a little bit, at least it
did something on the screen
but beautiful still is different I'd say.
So for one, we should style different things like our font we use,
I don't think this font is very beautiful and maybe the color of the text as well and the positioning
of the text in this surrounding area maybe is also something we can change.
So these are the next things we want to do.
Additionally I also don't want to use the same styles on both sections because both sections will actually
have very different purposes and styles in our web page.
So these are the two things I want to focus on next, how we can change different things than just the
background,
so how we can for example change that text inside of that background or in that element having that background
and how we can apply different styles to different sections.
So let's start with the different styles thing because that instantly yields a nice effect
and let's say we want to change the font family,
so the way the font looks like as well as the color of this h1 tag.
Now for this what we can do is, we can add a new selector to our CSS file and in this case, it would
be the h1 selector because we want to change the text in this h1 element,
so I guess it makes sense to use that h1 selector.
Now we again add the curly braces and now we did change the background in the past of the entire section
actually,
now I want to change things about that
h1 tag, about the text itself and the two things I mentioned were the color and the font family.
Now let's start with the color, you change the color of the text with the color property
and again if you're wondering how I know that, by experience, because as I mentioned, you work with the
same set of properties a lot and I will also show you that reference I was talking about
but for now let's just use color here and let's set a color of white for now. If we save that and we reload
the page, we see all,
so both h1 tags turned white which again makes a lot of sense because with the h1 selector, we select
all and not just one h1 element.
So this is for now at least one change, we did set the color to something different, to white in our case
but there still is more we can do,
I was talking about changing the font.
So for this, we need to change the font family, so you can go to that h1 tag and add font-family
as an additional property. This changes, well
you guessed it, the font family of this, so of this h1 tag
and now here, you've got a couple of choices, you can use a default font family, like sans-serif.
This is a special keyword which will use the default set up in your browser.
If you reload the page, you'll see indeed the style did change.
Now where is this coming from?
Now for this, we should open our browser preferences. In these preferences and that of course depends
on your browser but in Chrome, you've got the customize fonts area and each browser should have something
like this.
If you click it, you'll see some custom settings about your fonts
and now here's the interesting part,
you also see a standard font which is used by default, that was the font you saw at the beginning, times
in my case,
then you've got a font with serif,
so you're saying I want a serif font or if you want a sans-serif font, it'll use Helvetica in my case
and that of course may differ on your system.
Fixed width is an additional default which you often use for code snippets, you always see a preview of
the font below the dropdown, at least in Chrome.
So these are the default settings and you target them by either not assigning a font family which will
use the standard font, by setting it to serif, to sans-serif or here this would be monospace actually
but more on this in a special section later in the course.
So for now what we did is we set it to sans-serif and hence in my case, it uses Helvetica and therefore
we get a different look already.
Now you're not limited to using font families included on your system,
however sans-serif,
serif and monospace are always great values because they will use the browser defaults.
So you can rely on these keywords picking a font that looks at least to some extent in the way you want
because you can ensure it's a sans-serif or serif font as you fallback to the browser default for that
kind of font.
Sometimes you want a specific font though and you can't rely on that font being installed on the machine
of the user,
so to include a font which is not necessarily install ready, you can use a tool called Google Fonts.
If you search for Google fonts, you should find this result here, fonts.google.com
and on this page, you can see a lot of fonts which you can easily include on any web
page.
Now I already found one which I want to use for this project, so let's search for anton and here and
anton looks like this. Now you can add it to your project by clicking the plus which will open this part here
at the bottom
and if you expand this, you'll see two things, an import link which you need to add to your HTML head
section and the rule by which you can apply this font.
So let's grab the import link,
let's go to our index.html
file and add it above
our main.css import here, so that we can use that font in the main.css file
and thereafter, let's use font family,
so let's copy that rule and in our main.css file,
let's replace this font family declaration here with that.
So if we now save that and we leave google fonts and we reload the page, you'll see that the fonts changed once
again because now we're using that externally imported font
and since we're dynamically importing it with that link, you can rely on it being loaded on any machine
for any of your users.
So this is how we change the color and the font family.
This in my opinion improved the look, though it would also be nice to have some spacing inside of that
box and on the other hand, maybe get rid of that spacing around it and it would be nice if we didn't share
the styles between the two sections because as I mentioned, they should look different.
So that's a lot of work,
let's start with different styles for the different sections.